# tdt4240-project


This chapter is destined to all the potential users of the game. We
cover different way to install and run the application that would suit
different type of users ranging from the traditional end-users to a
future contributor. We will also shortly describe and explain the game
interactive components. Screen captures will be used to support the
speech.

-   Make sure you have *Google Play* installed

-   Make sure you have the latest version of *Google Play services*
    installed Updating this application may be more difficult
    than expected. If you are experiencing any trouble, just follow the
    next steps. Unless you can skip to the next point.

    1.  Open *Google Play Store*

    2.  Search for *Play Services & Play Store Information* application

    3.  Install the application

    4.  Open the application

    5.  Click on *Play Store* button

    6.  You should be redirected to the *Google Play Store* installation
        page of the *Google Play services*

    7.  Finally, simply click to update

<!-- -->

-   Download *Android Studio*

-   Go to `Tools -> Android -> SDK Manager`

    -   https://prnt.sc/itxj13

    -   make sure the highlighted items are installed

<!-- -->

-   Make sure *Android Studio* is set up has described in .

-   Install an emulator.

    -   http://prntscr.com/j8hvji

    -   Make sure the emulator has *Google Play* installed.

    -   Choose the latest (27) for your device.

-   Follow the same steps for

<!-- -->

-   Install the provided from the delivery.

-   Upon application startup, you should be asked to log in to *Google
    Play*. If you are already logged in on your device, this should be
    performed automatically for you.

-   When the game starts you should see a prompt saying
    `successfull login`.

    -   If you get something the `error displaying signin 0` message, it
        must be because you are facing one of the following problems:

        -   Your *Google Play service* is out of date

        -   You did not provide your email for the test version[^1]

        -   The login attempt did not succeed.

        -   Your phone does not have access to a proper
            Internet connection.

<!-- -->

-   To start a game, simply press the “Find game” button.

-   Then, an lobby creation activity should appear. During that time,
    *Google Play services* will try to find opponents.

-   Once the room is filled, you will be redirected to the game screen.

-   You will then instantly be able to start playing.

<!-- -->

-   Make sure *Android Studio* is set up has described in .

-   For you to be able to fully test the game, we need to make the
    `keystore`, that has been used to sign the build, match the one we
    have authorized in the *Google Play* console.

    -   This key is required to make sure the application requesting the
        is authorized.

    -   This can be accomplished by using the `debug.keystore` we added
        to the delivery to sign the builds you create.

-   Build and run the game on a device that have followed the steps
    previously explained (see ).

Beside the activity automatically generated by *Google Play services* ,
there are three main views to the game.

Game Screen

:   The principal screen of the application which is rendered at
    game time. See the section for more details.

Settings Screen

:   Screen allowing the user to modify general settings of the
    application such as the music volume and the sound effects volume.

Credits Screen

:   Screen listing all the copyright attribution with their
    corresponding asset. Even thought most of them were took for the
    public domain, we thought that it would still be interesting to
    thanks them for their work.

Once the game is started, the user can mainly interact with two controls
which are the joystick and the bomb button. We put a lot of work to make
those controls feel as natural as possible.\
By moving the joystick around, the user will induce change in position
of its character. At the moment the knob is released, its position is
directly reseted to a default neutral position which will make the
character stops. Depending on the relative position of the knob
relatively to the center of the joystick, an orientation component will
be extracted and send to the character to inform him that it has to
modify its position according to this new orientation. Another
interesting fact to observe is that the knob cannot fall off the
joystick limits and that the joystick is fixed to the bottom left corner
of the screen.\
To plant a bomb, the user can simply press on the bottom right corner
button displaying a bomb icon. Bare in mind that a cooldown is
programmed over this button to avoid the unlimited spawning of bombs
which would make the game less challenging and boring to play. However,
by collecting , a user can reduce this cooldown and get a competitive
advantage over its opponents.

By planting bombs, as described in the previous section, a user can
change the map configuration by destroying crates blocking its way.
There are two different types of obstacles (walls, crates and bushes).
As in the original *Bomberman*, walls are indestructibles whereas crates
and bushes can be destroyed using bombs.

By destroying crates, items may sometimes appear on the map. There are 6
types of collectible items. Their icons and associated effects are
described below.

Heal Potions

:   Increase the maximum health by 25 points and regenerate 25
    health points. The character health is initially set to 100 points
    and can increase up to 200 points. By after,

Poison Potions

:   Reduce health by 50 points.

Fire

:   Increase the damage inflected by the bombs you create by 50 points.
    Bombs inflect 10 points of damage by default. Again, the maximum
    amount of damage that a bomb can inflict is 200 points which means
    that it will instantly kill any player including yourself if you do
    not play carefully.

Bomb

:   Reduce the cooldown over the bomb button by 0.1 second. The minimum
    cooldown if 0.5 second and it starts to 1 second. Considering that a
    bomb take 3 seconds to detonate, this imply that the user can spawn
    from 3 to 6 bombs at the time. Also take note that, if a bomb is in
    the range of another bomb, then this bomb will be detonated no
    matter the time left on its timer. Think fast! Some particular bomb
    positioning combined to the right timing can create deadly combos.

Arrows

:   Increase the range of the explosion by 2 points without any
    defined limit. Highly ranged players may take advantage of getting
    out of sight from the opponents and easily take the escape by
    dropping bombs on their path.

Wind

:   Increase the speed of the character by 0.5 points. At the beginning
    of the match, the user starts with a speed of 1. Collecting wind
    tokens can increase this value up to 4 points. This speed attribute
    will then be used to scale the orientation vector received from the
    joystick to induce movement of the character.

[^1]: The game is in closed alpha on the *Google Play* console.
